Desktop release blogpost (#251)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2020-01-15-desktop-client-release.md

---
title: New Desktop Client Release - use Delta Chat on Windows, macOS, or Linux!
author: compl4xx
---

<img src="../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-group-chat.jpg" width="270" style="float: right; margin: 10px;display: block;" /> 
**Delta Chat is not only an Android app. You can use it on any device, even
without a smartphone. Since the latest release there are many new features!**

> For many instant messengers you need a phone number, or at least a smartphone -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For many instant messengers you need a phone number, or at least a smart device -
```

> not for Delta Chat. Even if you don't have a phone, you can use the Desktop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not for Delta Chat. Even if you don't have a smart device, you can use the Desktop
```

Client on its own.

> Most messengers have the problem that you can only chat with others on the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most messengers restrict you to chatting with others on the same
```

> platform. With Delta Chat, you can write to anyone with an E-Mail address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
platform. With Delta Chat, you can write to anyone with an e-mail address.
```

> This way, you are not locked into the userbase of Whatsapp, Signal, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, you are not locked into the userbase of WhatsApp, Signal, or
```

Telegram.

![Screenshot of the Desktop Client, where you can choose between different accounts.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-switch-account.png)

> *If you have more than one E-Mail address, you can switch between them.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*If you have more than one e-mail address, you can switch between them.*
```

## Many New Desktop Client Features!

> The Desktop Client is one of the tools which makes this possible! Thanks to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Desktop Client is one of the tools making this possible! Thanks to the
```

many developers, testers, translators and contributors who made this release
happen. Here is a quick overview:

<img src="../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-search-contacts.jpg" width="250" style="float: right; margin: 10px;display: block;" /> 
- New **Keyboard Shortcuts**: 

>   - press ctrl + K to search for a contact or group chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Press Ctrl + K to search for a contact or group chat.
```

>   - move through your chat list with alt + arrow keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Move through your chat list with Alt + ←↓↑→arrow keys.
```

- There are new beautiful **background images** by
  [Paula](https://github.com/paulaluap) and [Nico](https://github.com/nicodh) -
  but you can also choose a custom image.
- **Profile pictures** make your client more beautiful to look at, too.

> - You can now copy a link with a right click on the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now copy a link with a right-click on the message.
```

> - You can now copy a link with a right click on the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now copy a link by right-clicking the message it is in.
```

- There is now also the Saved Messages & Device Chat which you might know already 
  from [the mobile apps](https://delta.chat/en/2019-12-18-google-play-store-release).

![Screenshot of the Desktop Client; you can choose between different background images.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-background-image.jpg)

*You can choose between different beautiful background images.*

## Use Delta Simultaneously with the Android or iOS App!

> If you want to synchronize a Desktop Client with an Android or iOS app, better

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to sync a Desktop Client with an Android or iOS app, better
```

**export a backup and import it on the other device**. If you just send an
Autocrypt Setup Message, not everything is transfered. With a backup, you also
get your message history, and verified chats work better.

## Try it out Yourself!

> The Desktop Client will soon be ready for the MacOS and Windows Appstores; for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Desktop Client will soon be ready for the macOS and Windows Appstores; for
```

now, you can download them from [this website](https://get.delta.chat). Note

> that there are can be a warning that Delta Chat is not an official app, because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that you could be presented with a warning saying Delta Chat is not an official app, because
```

---

> title: New Desktop Client Release - use Delta Chat on Windows, MacOS, or Linux!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: New Desktop Client Release - use Delta Chat on Windows, macOS, or Linux!
```

This way, you are not locked into the userbase of Whatsapp, Signal, or
Telegram.

![Screenshot of the Desktop Client, where you can choose between different accounts.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-switch-account.png)

*If you have more than one E-Mail address, you can switch between different
Delta Chat accounts.*

## Many New Desktop Client Features!

The Desktop Client is one of the tools which makes this possible! Thanks to the
many developers, testers, translators and contributors who made this release
happen. Here is a quick overview:

<img src="../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-search-contacts.jpg" width="250" style="float: right; margin: 10px;display: block;" /> 
- New Keyboard bindings: 
  - press ctrl + K to search for a contact or group chat.
  - move through your chat list with alt + arrow keys.
- There are new beautiful background images by
  [Nico](https://github.com/nicodh) - but you can also choose a custom image.
- Profile pictures make your client more beautiful to look at, too.
- You can now copy a link with a right click on the message.

> - There is now also the Saved Messages & Device Chat which you might know from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There is now also the Saved Messages & Device Chat which you might know already from
```

>   [Android](https://delta.chat/en/2019-12-18-google-play-store-release).

Reviewer 2: iOS has them too so mention iOS here to or refer to "our mobile clients"

![Screenshot of the Desktop Client; you can choose between different background images.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-background-image.jpg)

*You can choose between different beautiful background images.*

## Use Delta Simultaneously with the Android or iOS App!

If you want to synchronize a Desktop Client with an Android or iOS app, better
export a backup and import it on the other device. If you just send an
Autocrypt Setup Message, not everything is transfered. With a backup, you also
get your message history, and verified chats work better.

## Try it out Yourself!

The Desktop Client will soon be ready for the MacOS and Windows Appstores; for
now, if you see a warning that Delta Chat is not an official app, just ignore
it. 

You can find the Desktop Client on [get.delta.chat](https://get.delta.chat).
Try it out!

> ![Screenshot of the Desktop Client: in the Media View you can see all images in a chat at once.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-media-view.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Outdated screenshot that has a visible bug in it that is already fixed on master

---

> title: New Delta/Desktop Release for Windows, macOS, or Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: New Delta/Desktop Release for Linux, macOS and Windows
```

author: compl4xx
---

<img src="../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-group-chat.jpg" width="270" style="float: right; margin: 10px;display: block;" /> 

> **Delta Chat Desktop does not only work well on all platforms now. It also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Delta Chat Desktop does not only work well on all major platforms now. It also
```

offers multi-account support, and can be used even without a mobile device. If you use it together
with the appstore releases for Android or iOS, you can get a decent multi-device experience.**

For many other messengers you need a phone number, or at least a mobile device -
but not for Delta Chat. Even if you don't have a phone or tablet, you can use the Desktop

> Client on its own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client on its own.
```

Additionally, most messengers have the problem that you can only chat with others if they

> use the same messenger. With Delta Chat, you can write to anyone with an email address.

Reviewer: "e-mail" is referenced below.

Author: Where? I always used `email` everywhere as far as I can tell. It's not entirely consistent over the whole website, that's a problem, yes, but not one which we can fix without deleting many, many translations. So I would like to at least keep it "email" in this post.

- You can now copy a link by right-clicking the message it is in.

- There is now also the Saved Messages & Device Chat which you might know already 
  from [the mobile apps](https://delta.chat/en/2019-12-18-google-play-store-release).

- The group name will now be used as the subject for outgoing messages. 

- As Desktop also makes it convenient to write "multi-line" messages containing
  several paragraphs, and you can change the "E-mail interaction" setting to 
  consider "All" e-mail, some people successfully experiment with using Delta apps 
  as their only e-mail client.

![Screenshot of the Desktop Client; you can choose between different background images.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-background-image.jpg)

## Use Delta Simultaneously with the Android or iOS App!

If you want to synchronize a Desktop Client with the Android or iOS Delta Chat app, please 
**export a full backup on one device and import it on the other**.

This way you will get your login credentials, encryption setup, contacts and all chat messages
and media synchronized between two Delta Chat installations. You can export a full backup 

> in the settings.  And during Setup of the second device you can, instead of entering login

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the settings. And during Setup of the second device you can, instead of entering login
```

credentials, import this backup. 

Note that the "Autocrypt Setup Message" is only useful if you want to synchronize your Delta Chat

> app with another Autocrypt-supporting mail client. It only allows to transfer the encryption setup but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app with another Autocrypt-supporting e-mail client. It only allows to transfer the encryption setup but
```

> app with another Autocrypt-supporting e-mail client. It only allows to transfer the encryption setup but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app with another Autocrypt-supporting e-mail client. It only allows to transfer the encryption setup, but
```

not any chat or contact history. 

## Installing Delta Chat Desktop 

> The Desktop Client will soon be available on the macOS and Windows Appstores; for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The desktop client will soon be available on the macOS and Windows Appstores; for
```

---
title: New Delta/Desktop Release for Windows, macOS, or Linux
author: compl4xx
---

<img src="../assets/blog/screenshots/2020-01-15-delta-chat-desktop-client-release-group-chat.jpg" width="270" style="float: right; margin: 10px;display: block;" /> 
**Delta Chat Desktop does not only work well on all platforms now. It also
offers multi-account support, and can be used even without a mobile device. If you use it together
with the appstore releases for Android or iOS, you can get a decent multi-device experience.**

For many other messengers you need a phone number, or at least a mobile device -
but not for Delta Chat. Even if you don't have a phone or tablet, you can use the Desktop
Client on its own.

Additionally, most messengers have the problem that you can only chat with others if they
use the same messenger. With Delta Chat, you can write to anyone with an email address.

> This way, you are not locked into the single company-owned userbase of WhatsApp, Signal, or Telegram.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, you are not locked into the single company-owned userbases of WhatsApp, Signal, or Telegram.
```

- New **Keyboard Shortcuts**: 
  - Press Ctrl + K to search for a contact or group chat.

>   - Move through your chat list with Alt + ←↓↑→arrow keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Move through your chat list with Alt + ←↓↑→ arrow keys.
```
